.TH ekdump 1 v1.0 Ekdump
.PD
.SH NAME
ekdump \- music module detailer/sample extraction utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBekdump\fR [-prefix <\fIpath+text\fP>] <\fIsongname\fP> [<\fRrange\fP>...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIekdump\fP shows song- and sample data from music module formats
(eg. SoundTracker) loadable by \fIekaviel\fP. The modules' samples
can be extracted by specifying identifying numbers or ranges
for each [see RANGES], after the module's filename. The name
resulting files take is derived from a prefix (default \fIInst\fP,
which \fI-prefix\fP overrides, and may contain a target directory)
and either the internal instrument filename (where specified
in the module source), the instrument name (where present in
the module), or the count of instruments so far dumped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -prefix <text>\fP
Override the default file-prefix "Inst". Can be used
to set a target directory for the files.
.SH RANGES
The ranges (identifying the sample numbers) are specified as
follows (where \fI1\fP is the first):
.TP 8
.B n
Extract the sample in the given position.
.TP 8
.B n\fP..\fBm\fP
Extract samples in positions \fIn\fP to \fIm\fP
.TP 8
.B n\fP..
Extract samples in positions \fIn\fP to \fI<last>\fP
.TP 8
.B \fP..\fBm\fP
Extract samples in positions \fI1\fP to \fIm\fP
.TP 8
.B all
A sensible synonym for the boundless range \fI..\fP
.SH CAVEATS
Dumping an unnamed sample more than once results in multiple
copies of the dumped sample, because ekdump will have chosen
filenames like \fIInst01\fP and \fIInst02\fP on successive writes.
.SH FILES
~wills/bin/ekdump
.SH BUGS
That blond fella? That's Henry off of Neighbours, that is!
.SH But seriously:
Please mail me a bug-report if you find any. I suspect there
may be quite a few, so happy hunting!
.SH AUTHOR
William "Wills" Towle, wills@scs.leeds.ac.uk
