.TH eksfplay 1 v1.0 Eksfplay
.PD
.SH NAME
eksfplay \- music sample player
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBeksfplay\fR [\fIoptions\fP] <\fIfilename\fP [notecount] note(s)>[...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIEksfplay\fP is a sample player for samples that have been taken
out of soundtracker modules, or similar files. Specification
of playback pitch is derived from the textual representation
seen during the tracker's playback, eg "C-3" for C in octave
3.
.br
For further details, see the DETAILS section
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -limit\fP
Use a lookup table for extra speed. Nonstandard note
frequencies are not allowed. Is the default for Irix
4 machines.
.br
See also \fB-unlimit\fP
.TP 8
.B -outrate\fP <speed>
Set the output rate in hertz (where hardware allows)
Large values (typically 44.1K, ie. CD quality) imply
greater CPU demand, which cannot necessarily be met;
if not met, this results in "stuttered" output.
.TP 8
.B -unlimit\fP
Forces a frequency calculation for each note played,
hence (perhaps dramatically) increasing the CPU time
required during playback. Also removes limits on the
values that are normally imposed by software.
.br
See also \fB-limit\fP.
.TP 8
.B -verbose\fP
Set verbosity on (reports instrument names and notes
as they are played).
.TP 8
.B -volume\fP <0-63>
Specify the volume at which to play back the module.
The range of \fB-volume\fP is not connected with the audio
hardware. Use of \fB-volume\fP overrides any master volume
setting present in the music files.
.br
It is a deliberate feature that volumes above 63 can
be specified, in order to amplify quiet samples. May
result in output which sounds saturated where volume
levels in the samples are "normal".
.SH FILES
~wills/bin/SG/eksfplay (Irix4 version)
.br
~wills/bin/ELF/eksfplay (Indy version)
.SH BUGS
That blond fella? That's Henry off of Neighbours, that is!
.SH But seriously:
Please mail me a bug-report if you find any. I suspect there
may be quite a few, so happy hunting!
.SH AUTHOR
William "Wills" Towle, wills@scs.leeds.ac.uk
